ok as I mentioned I just want to go through a few
other things to do with debugging the
you probably find useful what I'm going
to do is turn off this field or watch we
don't need that anymore and i'm going to
just stop the debugger for now and what
we want to do is add a few more methods
to the string utilities class i'm in the
string utilities class and we're going
to create another one...
...
....ok two very simple methods here
let's get back to our main method to add
a bit of code to actually run that so
...
....
....alright so
let's set a breakpoint in main on the
line containing the call to upper
prefix so this line here so set a
breakpoint there we run the debugger and
so far so good we can see here that the
string value is what we expect
abcdefg which is course the one that's
been defined on line 30 but then we want
to see what's happening inside the upper
and prefix method I'm going to press the
step into button over here so click on
step into but instead of stepping into
the upper and prefix method the debugger
steps into the ad suffix method
that's because it's called first on the
line back in the main method we can have
a look there and see
I'm gonna go back to where we where we
currently pause here and this trivial
example it doesn't matter but if you
think that we had a line of code that
contains calls to 4 or 5 methods so imagine a
long string chain for example and we're
interested in only that last method it
can get rather tedious to step inside
and out of all the methods and worse if
we accidentally hit the wrong button
like step over we then would have to
start the debugger again let's stop the
debugger and run it again going to stop it
run it again so the application
is suspended on the upper and prefix
statement again but this time instead of
pressing step into we're going to use
what something is called Smart step into
this is actually feature of the IntelliJ
debugger other debuggers may not actually
have this feature now there are two ways
we can actually tell intelliJ which
method we want to step into so if you
actually press press the shift f seven
will bring up a dialog and you can
select which method we want to step into
we can also go into the run menu click
on this smart step into you can see
that's shift f7 on a mac as
well click on that we get this little
option showing so either with the
shortcut on the keyboard shortcut or
selecting the option for the run menu
you get the same option here which
method to step into so now we can
actually select the upper and prefix
once we do that you can see without
doing anything else it's actually now
executed the code in the ad suffix and
move to the upper and prefix which is
where we actually wanted to check what
was going on
the point here is that the debugger just won't
suspend the application inside it now
of course the ad suffix method will
execute first and did execute but in
this case because we're using this smart
step into the debugger just didn't
suspend the application at that point
now another thing we can actually do is
set variable values on the fly so let's
just say that we found our bug and it's
due to a value being wrong now we can set
the value to what we expect to see if
the rest of the code executed correctly
let's try this out we're going to stop
here we're gonna go back to the the add
char method we're going to actually set
a break
point on line 12 where it's actually
updating the the chars added variable
and lets actually run this when i say run I mean
debug so we actually stopped there on
that line
let's resume the program a couple of
times just so the value the variable
gets updated and see that's one and now
it's 2
let's just say that we want to change
the value of this variable while we are running so
theirs couple of ways we can do this we
can actually right click over here from
chars added and set value and set the
value to 5 press ENTER and see that is
updated here to 5 and 5 and obviously five
down here
alternatively we can open up here and
list the
variables here we can actually do
the same thing we can actually set
value within there and there's
the keyboard shortcut over there to the
right and we can even change the s
variable as well
down here under the sbuilder i can
actually click on that click into value
if I wanted to come down here and click
on say this second char right-click that
set value you have to enter it in the
similar things i could put a single
....noting
that is added the 98 for it
automatically which is the ascii
equivalent of a lowercase B the point is
that we can actually change these values
on the fly without actually restarting our
program so we can test different things
based on the value that's seriously
pretty cool I think to be able to do that
and obviously now we come back and click
on resume again you can see the values
are still going up and the changes that
we made here are still being used so the
char is added the count is started from the
last value until six and seven and
obviously the rest of the chars are
being added to the char array without
affecting the change that we actually
made which is a pretty cool now one
last thing that I want to cover is i
mentioned earlier that we need the source
code to debug a method if we're using a
third-party library then we need to tell
IntelliJ where it can find the source now we are
not actually going to use a third-party
library but let's download a library and
its source so you can see how to
associate the source code with the
library so I'm going to get a link here
and open a browser
paste it in and its in the resources
section of this video we're going to do
is just go down to the bottom of this
package and we're going to download
both the binary i'm going to save that my
desktop and going to download
the sources same thing save their only
small file so it shouldn't take too long
at all
let's go back to intelliJ now what you
want to do I'll just close the window down
disconnect the debugger and what we want
to do now is come over here to click on
file and select project structure wanna
come to libraries and want to click on
the + select java want to navigate to
the folder that contains that file
the two libraries we have downloaded and
go to my home folder is going to be in my
desktop so the first one we want to add
here is the j transforms the width
dependencies one so we click on that first
then click on OK to say yes that's ok
that's going to be added to this current
project to this module so that's added
the first one now we're going to add the
source code to that library so what I'm
going to do here is make sure that we
use this little plus button here and if
your on a windows machine the plus
maybe here but the point is we want to make
sure that the actual library selected to
so I click OK to close it down
then click on file project structure
again click on library if it was not selected
already then select on the actual library if
you've got more than one don't click this
button again we want to click this
button here to associate to this
existing library but again that button
maybe at the top depending on your
operating system and click on that and
saying select file directions in which
library classes sources documentation
etc located but we want to
select the sources this time click on
that click ok
and notice now when it's done here
it's actually put the classes and
also listed the sources there as well so
we now associated the source code
for a particular library with the actual
library itself the actual class files
now having said that
the j transforms classes don't actually
contain debug information so therefore
even though we have the source we
wouldn't be able to see much in the
debugger it does really depend on the
library but i'm just using this as an
example to show you how to associate
source with a third-party library
because lots of libraries do have that
debug information and this is just a
great way that you can get the source
code and you can then start debugging
and stepping through source code for a
particular library that you're using keep in
mind that if you don't have the source
code then usually the debugger can show
us the method declarations because it
can figure those out from the java
binary file but that's all It can show us we
won't be able to see individual lines of
code unless you actually got that source
code so that's it for using
the IntelliJ debugger now other java
IDs also have debuggers the concepts are
the same but how you use the features
such as setting breakpoints and watch
points may be different but for now
you've got a solid basis to start with
and you should be able to use any
debugger to debug your applications now
you know the basics and what to look out
for
alright so that's that that's the
debugging finished in the next video we're
going to start looking at j unit testing
so we'll see you in the next video